README.md, before:

# Git & GitLab Tutorial eBook for Open Science for Physicists


This is a tutorial on git & GitLab for the course "Open Science for Physicists" at Utrecht University. It is forked and slightly adapted from the tutorial on git & GitHub for scientists without formal programming background: https://gitbookdown.dallasdatascience.com.


Git for version control      |  GitLab for collaboration
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
![](img/Git-Logo-2Color.png)  |  ![](img/GitLab_Logo.png)


## Why is git important for physicists?

Git facilitates (1) **documentation**, and (2) **sharing/collaborating**. Both of these are important in physics.

* **I. Version-control for code = the lab notebook of experiments. We need documentation for all our processes:**
  + Scenario A: Things were working, now they are not!
  + Scenario B: Why were changes made?
  + Scenario C: We made changes a long time ago…

* **II. Git and Remote Hosts (e.g., GitLab or GitHub) makes sharing/collaborating easier**
  + Sharing code made easy
  + Facilitates new collaboration
  + Encourages open source and open science

## Acknowledgement

* This tutorial is a fork of the tutorial on git & GitHub for scientists without formal programming background: https://gitbookdown.dallasdatascience.com, authored by Micaela Chan [@mychan24](https://github.com/mychan24) & Ekarin Pongpipat [@epongpipat](https://github.com/epongpipat)

  * Their tutorial borrows heavily from [Software Carpentry's git novice course](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/). Software Carpentry provides a lot of resources for other courses and teaching in general. Check them out!

  * Special thanks to [@jennywxyz](https://github.com/jennywxyz) for providing feedback and proofreading to their tutorial.

Commit message:

Updating chapter naming to include lesson number

README.md, after:

# Git & GitLab Tutorial eBook for Open Science for Physicists


This is a tutorial on git & GitLab for the course [Open Science for Physicists](https://osiris-student.uu.nl/onderwijscatalogus/extern/cursus?cursuscode=NS-PH500M&taal=en&collegejaar=huidig) at [Utrecht University](https://www.uu.nl/en/organisation/department-of-physics/education/masters-programmes).

This tutorial is forked and slightly adapted from the tutorial on git & GitHub for scientists without formal programming background: https://gitbookdown.dallasdatascience.com.


Git for version control      |  GitLab for collaboration
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:
![](img/Git-Logo-2Color.png)  |  ![](img/GitLab_Logo.png)


## Why is git important for physicists?

Git facilitates (1) **documentation**, and (2) **sharing/collaborating**. Both of these are important in physics.

* **I. Version-control for code = the lab notebook of experiments. We need documentation for all our processes:**
  + Scenario A: Things were working, now they are not!
  + Scenario B: Why were changes made?
  + Scenario C: We made changes a long time ago…

* **II. Git and Remote Hosts (e.g., GitLab or GitHub) makes sharing/collaborating easier**
  + Sharing code made easy
  + Facilitates new collaboration
  + Encourages open source and open science


## Acknowledgement

* This tutorial is a fork of the tutorial on git & GitHub for scientists without formal programming background: https://gitbookdown.dallasdatascience.com, authored by Micaela Chan [@mychan24](https://github.com/mychan24) & Ekarin Pongpipat [@epongpipat](https://github.com/epongpipat)

  * Their tutorial borrows heavily from [Software Carpentry's git novice course](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/). Software Carpentry provides a lot of resources for other courses and teaching in general. Check them out!

  * Special thanks to [@jennywxyz](https://github.com/jennywxyz) for providing feedback and proofreading to their tutorial.


## Getting started

This tutorial has 14 lessons and a [glossary](Appendix.md). You can start by clicking on the first lesson ([0 - Preface](00-index.md)) below.
